random_events

1 Wizard teleports in, asks, “Did I leave my hat here?” get it back, and teleports away.

1 Man painting on the street. Has a small mustache just below his nose, and his paintings are horrible.

1 See a kobold snatch a purse, and flee into a sewer grate.

1 Street cart selling fresh vegetables.

1 Guards come down the street, escorting a carriage to the palace.

1 Decree being read.

1 Guards pursuing a pickpocket.

1 Brawl outside a tavern.

1 Someone throws a tomato out their window at a drunk man making too much noise.

1 Man passed out in gutter.

1 Street procession honoring a local holiday/custom.

1 Circle of frogs, all facing inward. If you disrupt the circle, the frogs will all dash away.

1 Pigeon swarm!

1 Chamber pot emptied onto street.

1 Strong wind causes a duststorm, lowering visibility.

1 Children playing hoop stick run down alleyway. (And may pickpocket the players.)

1 Two men arguing about politics on a corner.

1 Women doing washing at the side of the street.

1 Man sitting on the curb eating some bread.

1 Drunk man singing his way down the street.

1 Cart heading to a market carrying produce.

1 Cart heading to artisan’s district carrying raw materials.

1 Precious metals caravan, with several armed guards.

1 Landlord collecting rent.

1 Two people yelling insults at each other from their second story rooms across the street.

1 Children mock sword-fighting.

1 Fighter walking towards guard barracks with several goblin trophies for a reward.

1 Procession of monks, beating wooden bells.

1 Lightning storm, but no rain.

1 Fisherman, carrying fish to market.

1 Dog chasing a cat.

1 Cat chasing a rat.

1 Rat running away with “what appears to be some sort of bread covered in cheese and tomato sauce.”

1 Someone beating their rugs overhead.

1 Woman going to fill water jugs at fountain.

1 Mugging.

1 Men playing darts against the side of a building.

1 Poetry competition.

1 Old man napping on his porch.

1 Couple holding hands in an alleyway. (Straka and Dolora?)

1 Juggler.

1 Person in stocks for theft.

1 Line of rats in a strangely orderly procession. (Rats were the ones who kicked Morse out of Freedonia.)

1 Man and elf trying to conduct business despite not sharing a language.

1 Gnome walking around in a human-sized suit of mechanical armor.

1 Two halflings in a trenchcoat. (DC 10)

1 Guard calls out time, watchmaker argues with him and says his clock is wrong.

1 Man repairing a wagon axle.

1 Cloud of sawdust billows onto street as man uses gust of wind to clear out his workshop.

1 Man with squirrels riding all over his shirt walks down the street talking to them.

1 Two men discuss a robbery, but fall silent quickly as the players approach them.

1 Two guys playing the knife game.

1 Woodsman splitting wood to sell as firewood.

1 Man exchanging new lamps for old ones. (He wants the new ones.)

1 Child doing his homework outside a shop.

1 Men repairing a street.

1 DC 15 to see a ranger on a rooftop, apparently staking out a building.

1 Household packing their things into a cart to move.

1 Household unpacking their things from a cart.

1 Crazy man telling stories about how the government is controlled by the gnomes, and they’ve invented an automaton that looks just like the emperor, and its existence is such an abomination that it’s caused all rain to stop.

1 Soup kitchen.

1 Woman passes by in palanquin, on her way to private garden.

1 Crazy man pokes his head out of the sewers, looks around, then goes back down.

1 Man clad in all black jumps off rooftop, right onto pickpocket, beats him up, and takes him to the guards. (Batman? No, no, this is “Tab Man”, because he ensures that evildoers pay their dues.) DC 20 check to see him on the roof ahead of time.

1 Man in red uses a rope to swing from a building, beat up a produce thief, and take him to the guards. (Spiderman? No, no, this is “Cider Man”, he protects the apple industry in town. He’s red because of the apples, see?) DC 10 check to see him on the roof ahead of time.

1 Squirrel steals bread from a bakery, and is chased by baker.

1 Man has allergic reaction at florist.

1 Couple walks down the street arguing about the man spending 5gp betting on horse races.

1 Horse races can be heard!

1 A man dangles off a balcony, in an attempt not to be seen by his mistress’ husband.

1 A funeral procession goes by.

1 A street vendor selling sausages from a cart.

1 Small earthquake.

1 Children daring each other to enter a cemetery and touch the crypt.

1 Traveling psychic.

1 Traveling merchant, bearing goods from far-off places.

1 Antique/pawn shop.

1 People circled around two boxing monkeys, betting on the outcome.

1 Man banging on door of house and yelling to let him in.

1 Priest giving religious speech on corner.

1 Groundskeeper trimming hedges in a park.

1 Groundskeeper digging grave in a cemetery.

1 Rich person giving away alms outside the back door to their mansion.

1 Two men playing Go. (Or chess, shogi, checkers, etc.)

1 Pack of wild dogs running through the street.

1 Cart full of wool goes past, on its way to the weavers.

1 Prisoner on his way to jail escorted past.

1 Prisoner released from jail.

1 Clothier trying to convince a nobleman that he’s wearing a fine suit, when he’s actually wearing nothing at all. He has several planted passersby helping him out.

1 Mysterious woman at the end of an alleyway brewing something in a cauldron. It turns out to be tea.

1 Pickpocket steals from someone (DC 10 to notice.)

1 Children built forts of barrels on opposite sides of the road, and are having a mock war by throwing things at each other.

1 Man going around nailing fliers to message boards.

1 Drug deal. (DC 10 to notice.)

1 Temple bells ring.

1 Army detachment marches down the street.

1 Reveille played in the distance.

1 Manhunt for wanted murderer.

1 Rabid dog.

1 Gnome spy. (DC 20 to notice.)

1 Mailman drops a sack of letters, scattering them all over the street.

1 Bakery ovens billowing smoke, because the owner fell asleep.

1 Prisoner running away from jail.

1 Trapper returning to town from the wilds.

1 Nasty smell emanating from an apothecary’s shop, with a coughing and gagging from inside.

1 Cart breaks an axle, sending goods all over the street.

1 Three men in wheeled bathtubs come rolling down the street, apparently racing one another.
